Welcome to my email course on Practical Accounting for Non-Accountants

My name is Federico and I’m the founder of myAbakus.

My goal for this course is that you get a solid understanding of what are the accounting principles and concepts that are relevant to the financial success of your business.

And to that end, we must start the course by tackling the following question:

Introduction: Why should you even care?

Let’s face it: running your own business is hard work. It’s more rewarding than a steady job for those of us who chose that path, but it’s also way more challenging in many ways. It usually takes more physical, mental and emotional energy, because the survival and success of the business becomes not just a probable (or improbable) outcome, but something that defines (for others and especially for us) who we are.

So given that we are so committed to our own businesses and that success doesn’t exactly come knocking on our door but takes a lot of hard work, my argument is that an entrepreneur cannot afford the luxury of leaving money on the table and therefore, must make sure that her or his business is as profitable as it can be. And to do so, it’s essential to keep an eye on both the top line and the bottom line.

To understand why this is so important, let’s review a common mistake: obssesing and only paying attention to the top line.

Valerie is a hard working entrepreneur who started her business from scratch and has been successfully growing it. Sales and customers have increased substantially and maintaining that growth is where Valerie focus most of her time and almost all her energy. And even though the growth of a business usually has a negative impact on cash flow (something that is not intuitive and we will cover in other lesson), Valerie has managed to operate without drawing more debt or capital.

The problem is that Valerie has not been paying much attention to profits and having enough cash to meet payroll and pay the bills could give her a false sense that the business is doing well. Even though she doesn’t have reliable profit numbers to back it up.

If Valerie is lucky, the business is profitable and she just haven’t had the time to keep track of profits. Although it’s arguably not as profitable as it can be, because she cannot eliminate potentially wasteful spending that has not been accounted properly.

But if Valerie is not so lucky, the business is not that profitable and it’s the top line growth, plus having enough cash in hand to meet all payments, what gives her the wrong idea that things must be going well.

And they are indeed going well for her customers, her suppliers and her employees but not so much for her. Why? Because profits is the only way for a business to create value for its owners. So if Valerie’s business is not really profitable, we can argue that she’s working primarily for the benefit of other stakeholders of the business and not so much for her own.

By this point I hope I have you convinced that paying attention to your business profitability is very important, even if you are starting and expect to lose money for some time. So if you are sold on this idea, the key question is: How can I reliably measure the profit (or loss) that my business is making on any given period?

The purpose of this course is to teach you the accounting concepts you need to be able to answer this question with confidence and on your own. Basically, my goal is to make you proficient and self-sufficient in the principals of accounting that are relevant for you as a business owner.

So if you are interested in turning accounting from a fiscal chore better left to the accountant into something useful and valuable to help you run your business and maximize its profits, I invite you to continue taking this course.

I know you’re very busy, so I will break down the content in weekly lessons that should move your knowledge forward without taking much of your time or requiring any previous accounting knowledge. And I’ll do my best to try to explain things in a clear and accesible manner.

Remember that my goal is not to teach you basic accounting as if you were a student of the subject. I don’t think you have the time or interest for that. My goal is to teach only the accounting principles and concepts that you will need to make accounting a useful and valuable process inside your business.

If that is something you are interested in, I hope to have your attention next week where we will cover:

Lesson 1:

And if you have questions about what we have covered in relation to your business, please reply to this email and be certain that I will personally reply.

Until next week

Federico Pena
Founder
myAbakus.com
